LEAP Installation and Startup

Introduction. 
This is the first-time startup guide for the Land Engagement Adjudication Platform (LEAP). 
The Land Engagement Adjudication Platform is a web application developed by 
C1Cs Michaela Kovalsky, Kieran McCauley, Aaron Eakins, Luke Kuklis (Class of 2025) 
for the United State Air Force Academy's Multi-Domain Laboratory. 
Development and testing took place in June 2024 at the 
Air Force Research Laboratory's Gaming Research Integration for Learning Laboratory.
For more help, please reference the note at the end.

Step 1. Cloning the repository.
Open a terminal. Navigate to the root folder you want to clone the repository into. 
Use 'cd <foldername>' to go into a folder and 'cd ..' to go back.
Run the following line:
git clone https://github.com/mkov77/LEAP.git

Step 2. Restoring the backend.
You are going to need to install PostgreSQL. Once it's installed, open PgAdmin4 which
will be installed during the PostgreSQL process. Create a new database called "LEAP". 
This can be done by right clicking a database group on the left navigation bar on PgAdmin4.
Right click your new database and click "Restore...". Where it says "Filename", find
the LEAP.sql file located in the ./Leap/backend folder. Click restore. The tables and 
data should load in. 

Step 3. Backend privileges.
Still on PgAdmin4, right click the LEAP database on the navigation bar.
Select the 'Grant Wizard' option. 
For 1, select all the objects. 
For 2, create a new privilege. The grantee will be 'postgres', Privileges: 'ALL'. 
For 3, hit 'Finish'.
If this doesn't work, repeat the Grant Wizard process but set 'PUBLIC' as the grantee.

Step 4. Install Dependencies.
Go back to your terminal. Make sure you are in the project folder that you cloned. 
It will be called "LEAP". Run the following line to install all the required dependencies:
npm install
If this doesn't work, you probably don’t have npm and you will have to go install it. 
ChatGPT or google are the best resources if this applies.

Step 5. Adjust the endpoints.
You will a need an IDE (a code editor) for this. I suggest Visual Studio Code.
Search-replace every instance of "localhost" with your computer's IP address.

Step 6. Starting the program.
Go to your file explorer and locate the project folder. At the root of the project folder,
double click to open STARTUP.bat. This will launch the site and the backend. 

Note from start-up guide author.
This is based on the set-up process I used to get the application up and running
on my academy laptop. If there is anything I can do to help, please contact me on teams. 
- C1C Michaela Kovalsky
